now Google employees have staged Sittin
to protest against the tech Giants
business with Israeli government
protesters rallied in the company's
offices in New York and California
Google and rival Tech firm Amazon
reportedly signed a $1.2 billion
contract with Israeli government back in
2021 the project Nimbus deal is said to
provide cloud computing infrastructure
and services to the Israeli
government not only uh is the lack of
transparency concerning but just the
context uh of which the contract is
being taken place in we know that the
genocide in GZA is one of the or is the
first AI power genocide so we find that
big Tech is at the Forefront uh of kind
of like streamlining this genocide uh
against
Palestinians so let's bring in ramish
shasan he's a professor at the UCLA
Department of information studies he
joins us live from Los Angeles ramish
good to have you with us so tell us
briefly what exactly is Project and why
is the project so controversial that
even Google employees as we just saw
there are now protesting about how it's
being used with the Israelis as the war
in Gaza
continues yeah so project Nimbus is a is
a is a contract that Google and to a
lesser extent Amazon web services signed
with the Israeli government uh for $1.2
billion back in
2021 and as as um the person who was
interviewed in your story indicated
there's actually a shocking lack of
transparency around exactly what this
project covers outside of providing
interoperable comprehensive cloud
computing which is essentially systems
of data storage data management and
sharing data for the Israeli government
which uh of course is likely to extend
to the Israeli Defense Forces so it's
it's a project that recog it's it's a
project that marks and and and and and
sort of highlights uh the direct
connections that big technology
companies in the United States have not
only to with the so-called
military-industrial complex but to
directly aiding and embedding um the
Israeli government at a very very uh a
very difficult time yeah and that's an
interesting point you make because the
recent International court of justice
ruling compelled Israel to prevent acts
of genocide in Gaza could then big tech
companies be held responsible if it's
found that their AI software helped
Israel to Target Palestinian civilians
in Gaza mean could they be held uh
complicit to
genocide absolutely because we know that
these AI systems are actually um have a
number of false positives associated
with them that's there's a reporting
that came out just in the last couple
weeks on this so the Israelis are
actually using big Tech American big
Tech corporate AI software to predict
targets and pro the probability that the
target is where they think that that the
that they will um you know engage in in
a sort of a violent act right so
basically the the way this is working is
Corporate American big Tech is actually
aligned with many of the Israeli
militaries actions in these particular
ways and the fact that AI systems are
being used uh indicates that there's a
lack of regard um by the Israeli State
and the IDF and obviously connected to
this uh big tech companies in the false
positives meaning that they know and
everybody knows these AI systems will
make mistakes right so that there will
be wrongful deaths and wrongful assassin
as we've seen with so many civilian
people in Gaza they're basically
complicit in such in the sense that they
they are signing contracts with uh this
state ramish so do we know then if if
Google and to a less extent Amazon are
selling this kind of Technology uh to
other countries or militaries and once
they sell it do they have any control
over how it's
used right I mean that's that's very
dependent on the specific agreements
that any big tech company will have with
another state and and mind you this is
not merely issue involving Google and
Amazon the company Palante here uh
headed by Peter teal who's a supporter
of the former president Trump um is a
company that's been using many of its
military predic it's been using
prediction software with other states um
project Nimbus is at least you know as I
mentioned earlier it's quite notable for
its lack of transparency right um so we
don't really know if you know sort of
equivalents of this are happening with
this particular set of Partnerships for
all data interoperability for all cloud
computing for other foreign States but
certainly one can imagine that that is
something that could happen or is
happening uh ramish just a final thought
to you are we now then in a world where
big Tech uh is selling this kind of
controversial AI technology to the
highest bidder in a very unregulated
Market space that even governments are
are powerless to police and if so what
needs to be
done yeah as you allude to it's a much
much larger issue almost everything in
our lives is turned into Data that data
is being harvested by private
corporations it can be bought and sold
it was bought and sold in the case of
examples like Cambridge analytica so we
know that basically our data these ways
of of of mon of quantifying different
aspects of our lives are being bought
and sold in transacted and largely are
being transacted uh in relation to Big
Tech platforms we also know in the AI
space we're talking about a very limited
set of actors something of an oligopoly
both in the US and China just a few
actors that are using our data without
compensating us potentially to for all
sorts of aims whether they're
advertising oriented aims or in this
case uh PR potential surveillance
assassination types of Aim so what
really needs to be done is every single
corporate driven technology must be
regulated to ensure that it's audited
that there's disclosure and that we are
very clear about what data virus is
being used by whom and for what purposes
and the rights are returned to people
accordingly and there's plenty of ways
for big tech companies to continue to be
the wealthiest companies in the whole
world and in the history of the world uh
while still maintaining our rights over
our own data because they're expressive
of our own lives as people ramish shasan
really good to get your thoughts and
your analysis there ramish thank you
very much for talking to
us thank you appreciate
it make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al